National Anthem of South Korea
English Translation
========================================

1. First performed in 1896, it was well-known by all Koreans by 1910. (It was not the national anthem at this time however, as an imperial anthem was in use at the time.) At this time, the song was usually sung to a Scottish folk song, “Auld Lang Syne”, as well as occasionally to other music. In that year, the Japanese invaded Korea, and banned the song. However, it was still popular with Koreans abroad as a yearning for national independence.

2. In 1935 composer Ahn Eaktay wrote the music that’s currently in use for the anthem (he wanted the song to have a Korean melody and not that of a folk song of a foreign nation). It was adopted by the government in exile and then, when South Korea was founded in 1948, three years after the Japanese occupation ended, it was officially adopted by that government.

3. The anthem shares a title with that of the anthem of North Korea, as well as that of the Korean Empire, the music is also somewhat reminiscent of that of North Korea’s anthem. There has also been a “united Korean anthem” created by blending the melodies of the two nations’ anthems seamlessly, used by some to promote Korean re-unification.

4. This work is licensed under CC BY 4.0. See our FAQ for details.

5. A

6. 
B

7. 
C

8. D E F
G H
I J
K L
M
N O
P Q R
Sa-Sk
Sl-Sz
T
U V
W Y Z
FAQ
Toggle website search

9. First performed in 1896, it was well-known by all Koreans by 1910. (It was not the national anthem at this time however, as an imperial anthem was in use at the time.) At this time, the song was usually sung to a Scottish folk song, “Auld Lang Syne”, as well as occasionally to other music. In that year, the Japanese invaded Korea, and banned the song. However, it was still popular with Koreans abroad as a yearning for national independence.
In 1935 composer Ahn Eaktay wrote the music that’s currently in use for the anthem (he wanted the song to have a Korean melody and not that of a folk song of a foreign nation). It was adopted by the government in exile and then, when South Korea was founded in 1948, three years after the Japanese occupation ended, it was officially adopted by that government.
The anthem shares a title with that of the anthem of North Korea, as well as that of the Korean Empire, the music is also somewhat reminiscent of that of North Korea’s anthem. There has also been a “united Korean anthem” created by blending the melodies of the two nations’ anthems seamlessly, used by some to promote Korean re-unification.

10. Title
“애국가” (Korean (Han-geul script))
“Aegukga” (Korean (Revised Romanization))
“Patriotic Song” (English translation)

11. “애국가” (Korean (Han-geul script))
“Aegukga” (Korean (Revised Romanization))
“Patriotic Song” (English translation)

12. Lyricist
윤치호 (Yun Ch’i-Ho) or
안창호 (An Ch’ang-Ho)

13. 윤치호 (Yun Ch’i-Ho) or
안창호 (An Ch’ang-Ho)

14. Composer
안익태 (Ahn Eaktay)

15. Adopted
August 15, 1948

16. Sheet Music
Music with Korean lyrics (Han-geul script)

17. Music with Korean lyrics (Han-geul script)

18. Lyrics
Korean lyrics (Han-geul script)

28. 
Korean lyrics (Revised Romanization)

38. 
English translation
1. Until that day when the waters of the Eastern Sea run dry and Mt. Baekdu is worn away,
God protect and preserve our nation.

39. CHORUS:
Three thousand Li of splendid rivers and mountains, filled with Roses of Sharon;
Great Korean people, stay true to the Great Korean way!

40. 2. As the pine atop Mt. Namsan stands firm, as if wrapped in armour,
unchanged through wind and frost, so shall our resilient spirit.

41. Chorus

42. 3. The Autumn sky is void and vast, high and cloudless;
the bright moon is our heart, undivided and true.

43. Chorus

44. 4. With this spirit and this mind, give all loyalty,
in suffering or in joy, to the love of country.

45. Chorus

46. Korean lyrics (Han-geul script)

56. 
Korean lyrics (Revised Romanization)

66. 
English translation
1. Until that day when the waters of the Eastern Sea run dry and Mt. Baekdu is worn away,
God protect and preserve our nation.

67. CHORUS:
Three thousand Li of splendid rivers and mountains, filled with Roses of Sharon;
Great Korean people, stay true to the Great Korean way!

68. 2. As the pine atop Mt. Namsan stands firm, as if wrapped in armour,
unchanged through wind and frost, so shall our resilient spirit.

69. Chorus

70. 3. The Autumn sky is void and vast, high and cloudless;
the bright moon is our heart, undivided and true.

71. Chorus

72. 4. With this spirit and this mind, give all loyalty,
in suffering or in joy, to the love of country.

73. Chorus

74. Korean lyrics (Han-geul script)

75. Korean lyrics (Revised Romanization)

76. Until that day when the waters of the Eastern Sea run dry and Mt. Baekdu is worn away,
God protect and preserve our nation.

77. CHORUS:
Three thousand Li of splendid rivers and mountains, filled with Roses of Sharon;
Great Korean people, stay true to the Great Korean way!

78. 2. As the pine atop Mt. Namsan stands firm, as if wrapped in armour,
unchanged through wind and frost, so shall our resilient spirit.

79. Chorus

80. 3. The Autumn sky is void and vast, high and cloudless;
the bright moon is our heart, undivided and true.

81. Chorus

82. 4. With this spirit and this mind, give all loyalty,
in suffering or in joy, to the love of country.

83. Chorus

84. Toggle website search