National Anthem of Nepal
English Translation
========================================

1. After the revolutions of spring 2006 against the monarchy, Nepal sought to replace its pro-monarchy anthem with a new one in a public contest. The winner, Pradeep Kumar Rai (writing under the pen name व्याकुल माइला (Byakul Maila)) was selected from 1,272 submissions. During the submission process, Rai and his family were interviewed several times to prove he was not a monarchist, since he one edited a book of poetry that contained a submission from the king.

2. The new anthem was officially declared on August 3, 2007. Despite the lyrics speaking of diversity, peace, and unity, the anthem is seen as highly tied to the Maoist government that controls Nepal, whereas some of the Maoists themselves want a more revolutionary anthem.

3. Special thanks to: Erwin Hoheisel for providing some of this information and the Romanized Nepali lyrics and English translation.

4. This work is licensed under CC BY 4.0. See our FAQ for details.

5. A

6. 
B

7. 
C

8. D E F
G H
I J
K L
M
N O
P Q R
Sa-Sk
Sl-Sz
T
U V
W Y Z
FAQ
Toggle website search

9. After the revolutions of spring 2006 against the monarchy, Nepal sought to replace its pro-monarchy anthem with a new one in a public contest. The winner, Pradeep Kumar Rai (writing under the pen name व्याकुल माइला (Byakul Maila)) was selected from 1,272 submissions. During the submission process, Rai and his family were interviewed several times to prove he was not a monarchist, since he one edited a book of poetry that contained a submission from the king.
The new anthem was officially declared on August 3, 2007. Despite the lyrics speaking of diversity, peace, and unity, the anthem is seen as highly tied to the Maoist government that controls Nepal, whereas some of the Maoists themselves want a more revolutionary anthem.
Special thanks to: Erwin Hoheisel for providing some of this information and the Romanized Nepali lyrics and English translation.

10. Title
“सयौं थुँगा फूलका” (Nepali (Devanagari script))
“Sayaun Thunga Phool Ka” (Nepali (Romanization))
“Hundreds of Flowers” (English translation)

11. “सयौं थुँगा फूलका” (Nepali (Devanagari script))
“Sayaun Thunga Phool Ka” (Nepali (Romanization))
“Hundreds of Flowers” (English translation)

12. Lyricist
प्रदीपकुमार राई (Pradeep Kumar Rai)

13. प्रदीपकुमार राई (Pradeep Kumar Rai)

14. Composer
अम्बर गुरुङ (Ambar Gurung)

15. अम्बर गुरुङ (Ambar Gurung)

16. Adopted
August 3, 2007

17. Sheet Music
Music only

18. Lyrics
Nepali (Devanagari script)

25. Nepali lyrics (Romanization)

32. English translation
We are hundreds of flowers, the one garland – Nepali
Sovereign, spread out from Mechi to Mahakali.

33. We are hundreds of flowers, the one garland – Nepali
Sovereign, spread out from Mechi to Mahakali.

34. Amassing nature’s millions of heritage
By the blood of the braves, independent and immovable.

35. Land of knowledge, land of peace, Terai hills, mountains
Undivided this beloved, our motherland Nepal.

36. Diverse race, language, religion, culture are so large
Our progressive nation, long live, long live Nepal.

37. Nepali (Devanagari script)

44. Nepali lyrics (Romanization)

51. English translation
We are hundreds of flowers, the one garland – Nepali
Sovereign, spread out from Mechi to Mahakali.

52. We are hundreds of flowers, the one garland – Nepali
Sovereign, spread out from Mechi to Mahakali.

53. Amassing nature’s millions of heritage
By the blood of the braves, independent and immovable.

54. Land of knowledge, land of peace, Terai hills, mountains
Undivided this beloved, our motherland Nepal.

55. Diverse race, language, religion, culture are so large
Our progressive nation, long live, long live Nepal.

56. Nepali (Devanagari script)

57. Nepali lyrics (Romanization)

58. We are hundreds of flowers, the one garland – Nepali
Sovereign, spread out from Mechi to Mahakali.

59. We are hundreds of flowers, the one garland – Nepali
Sovereign, spread out from Mechi to Mahakali.

60. Amassing nature’s millions of heritage
By the blood of the braves, independent and immovable.

61. Land of knowledge, land of peace, Terai hills, mountains
Undivided this beloved, our motherland Nepal.

62. Diverse race, language, religion, culture are so large
Our progressive nation, long live, long live Nepal.

63. Toggle website search